Solak - Optimal Rotations (By @pavu#0001 and @gurran#9925)

How to use this guide:
This guide includes rotations and strategies for the entire kill, separated by phase. Within these sections there are subsections for when the duo and 4 man strategies differ; these are preceded by (duo) or (4 man) headers respectively. When strategies subsequently converge they are preceded by the “All sizes:” header. 

Additionally, to reduce the verbosity of this guide, each section has a short summary detailing the general strategy and ult rotation for the respective phase.

Introduction:
This section of the Solak guide aims to provide the current meta rotations and explain additional strategies for the smoothest kills possible for duo and 4 man kills. To give an idea of the kill speeds assumed with these strategies, below is a list of benchmarks to aim for:
  - P1 root skip
  - P1 1 cycle core
  - P2 SE erupt skip (killing both southern eruptions before being cleansed)
  - P2 climb skip (4 man only)
  - P2 2nd rain skip (duo only)
  - P3 2 pad 
  - P3 1 cycle elf (duo only)
  - P4 no realm

Overall, expect ~6:20 duo and ~5:40 4 man kill times.

Notably, this guide will NOT cover rotations/tips for storm tanking P2. While storm tanking can speed up kills by as much as 10+ seconds, the risk involved is generally considered too high to be worth it for overall kills per hour. 

Overview of roles:
(duo):
Base: bleeds first P1, stays down P2, uses all bleeds P3
DPS: ZGS specs first P1, goes up twice P2
The above roles are not mutually exclusive to any other bleed usage (i.e. either player can bleed elf/pre-bleed P4).

Pre-fight:
All members of the team should overload on Spirit weed, Lantadyme, and (optionally) Kwuarm incense sticks. When all team members are ready, they should overload at the bank (only 1 dose is necessary for the entire fight). Once building adrenaline, all team members should DBA spec (or, preferably, EOF spec with a DBA amulet). 

P1:

```Summary: All players sigil zerk and ZGS spec. Use bled assault and cane in zerk, then use both again in ZGS. The base should use all TMW spear bleeds before ZGS, while the DPS should use all bleeds after ZGS. Build to sun around the 55 second mark, then kill roots when the phase HP is hit. Players should kill roots according to the diagram shown below then kill arms/legs. Note that it is important for players’ rotations to line up for bleeding the core, so you should generally prioritise limb damage and ignore any potential lasher spawns if you are having trouble killing roots. As the legs are about to die, all players should apot zerk and use barge to kill them. Then vuln and use bled assault, cane, and flurry on the core. Remember to stand under the core to guarantee that backhand will do flanking damage.```

You and your partner should mine the roots shown in the image below in the section on roots. Before starting, the base should use an ability such as Reprisal or Devotion to signal to the DPS that they are about to engage Solak. Both players should then use zerk and proceed to do the following rotations:
Base: zerk > barge > cleave > deci > (limitless) (dw) bleed assault > freedom (2h auto) > cleave > deci > cane > sever (dive to pad) > cleave (stalling if necessary) (dive back to Solak) > (release stalled cleave by clicking Solak if necessary) deci
DPS: zerk > barge > cleave > deci > (limitless) bleed assault > cane > cleave > deci > mfury > backhand > cleave (stalling if necessary) (dive back to Solak) > (release stalled cleave by clicking Solak if necessary) deci
== end of zerk ==
Base: (tmw spear) dismember > slaughter + walk > tendril > deci > zgs spec > cleave > sever > deci > cane > cleave > (tmw spear) dismember > deci > assault > backhand > deci > (mage switch) auto combust + voke > shard > sun
DPS: zgs spec > sever > deci > freedom (2h auto) > cane > cleave > mfury > backhand (voke) > assault > cleave > (tmw spear) slaughter + walk > tendril > deci > cleave > (dw) sever) > (mage switch)  auto corrupt > shard > sun
Only 1 DPS should bleed after ZGS in 4 man
Note that it is generally a good idea to walk Solak south at the beginning of the fight until he is roughly in the centre of the arena - this makes it so that pads are easier to dive to and from.

P1 roots:
Properly handling roots is crucial to an efficient P1. Without prior communication or assumptions about strategy, it can be easy to overkill or waste mines on roots. Below are diagrams for the roots that should be mined and attacked by each person. Remember that roots can be bound and flanked. As a rule of thumb, any roots NOT in sunshine range should be *meleed*, to take advantage of TMW dismember+tendrils, as well as stronger basics.

Note that roots should only be targeted after Solak has been phased to 2.25m. If he is above the HP cap, he will do the roots spec (marked tile with timer) at 1:06 on the boss timer. If the cap has been hit, he will go straight to arms/legs. 

(duo):
After sunning, the base should mine the southernmost root on the westside. Surge or dive back to your sun, and kill the two roots shown below in your sun. The DPS should mine the northernmost root on the east side, and kill the two roots shown below. If the abilities shown below do not kill roots completely, it’s fine to ignore them unless they are very high health (5k+), or if the previous root (the next anticlockwise root) is alive also, since roots heal in a clockwise pattern. 

(4 man):
In 4 man, there are more specific root roles. The base and 2 DPS will “sun arms,” which means they will sun in the usual duo spot. The 2 DPS that sun with the base should handle the NW and SE roots. The last DPS should sun on the east side to target the E-NE root in their sun.

Due to the diminishing-returns nature of Solak’s scalability, in 4 man (or larger) team sizes you will find that you will hit the HP cap of 3.75m much more quickly compared to duo. As such, you should make sure to kill all roots before getting on the limbs. 

P1 limbs (all sizes):
AoE abilities like dbreath and chain should be prioritised here. Stand in the spot shown in the diagram below in order to hit both arms with dbreath. In duo, the base should target the far arm and DPS should target the close arm. In 4 man, simply target the arm closest to you. Remember that left-click targeting for vuln bombs is quite tricky here and you will likely end up targeting Solak, so try to right click to vuln arms. For legs, prioritise (4t) deto, dbreath, and chain. If they are relatively high hp (~30% or more on both legs) then the base can use corr and the DPS can use ice wrack. Otherwise, get off the legs and build to zerk (or wait 2t if already 100 adren). 

Core:
Before the legs die, all players should apot zerk. Barge any surviving legs, along with cleave and deci if they are still not dead. Dive to the core spawn location, vuln bomb, and proceed to do the follow rotation:
Cleave + deci (if not used on legs) > bled assault > mfury > backhand > hurricane > flurry > deci

P1 positioning diagrams:
https://i.imgur.com/36GhCjO.jpg
https://i.imgur.com/qsjLWRY.jpeg
Legend:
Orange circle indicates DBreath spot for arms
White circles indicates pre-fight mines
Red circles indicate secondary mines (to be placed after phase HP is reached)
Lines under roots indicate which player should target them
  - Blue indicates base
  - Other colors represent other DPS(s)
  - Underlines with multiple colors indicate multiple players mine this root (only applies to S-SW root in 4-man, where both the base and SE DPS mine it)

P2:

For the sake of clarity: “activating cleanse” refers to when the player clicks Merethiel to begin cleansing. “Getting cleansed” refers to when the players are actually cleansed of their blight stacks.

```Summary:
After the core, all players should switch to mage and kill the SW erupt, activating cleanse after your 3rd ability. Kill the SE erupt, get cleansed, and go up the storm via the SW circle. The team should then evenly split the 2 northern erupts, with half the team going up a second time to finish off the storm. 
(duo):
The base should sun, sigil zerk (or vice versa depending on aggro), and ZGS spec. The DPS should sigil zerk after coming down, sun and ZGS spec. The DPS should climb during the arm spec. 
(4 man):
The base should sun, sigil zerk, and ZGS spec. The two elf 1 roles should kill and go up the same erupt, while the base and elf 2 kill the other and stay down. The elf 1’s should sigil zerk, sun, and thresh until phased, while the base and elf 2 sigil zerk, sun, and ZGS depending on HP. Remember that P2 phases earlier (based on HP) in a 4 man, so try to be more conservative with adren in sun in order to get a good ZGS. Maintain high adren until Solak phase into P3 in order to zerk right away.```

Southern eruptions (all sizes):
All players should start on the SE erupt and use vuln bomb, auto + dbreath > conc > flanking impact on it. Right after impact, the cleanse should be activated and players should surge or dive to the SW erupt. Use vuln bomb > 5t asphyx > wm on it, or 3t asphyx if you missed ticks travelling between eruptions. Right after wm, right back to the middle to get cleansed, using a shard Solak while doing so. You should be cleansed after sharding, so surge or dive to the SW circle to go up to the storm. Note that you will have to be tick perfect if using 5t asphyx, so just do 3t asphyx until you are comfortable with the cleanse timing. Also remember that the Inquisitor’s staff effect does not work on eruptions, so asphyx and wm should be done with dual wield.

Northern eruptions:
If all players are using the proper abilities on the southern eruptions, they will always die before the cleanse. After coming down from the storm, the team should evenly split damage between the two northern erupts. Also remember to switch to melee for the northern erupts.

(duo) :
Players can either decide pre-fight or while killing the storm which eruption they will go to. Before targeting an eruption, check to make sure both southern eruptions are dead. If not, the player who has chosen the side with the surviving southern eruption should barge it and use basics to kill it, then bleed flurry on the northern eruption on the same side. The DPS should go up a second time to kill the storm, while the base stays down.

(4 man):
Same as duo, except the elf 1’s go up twice to kill the storm and the base and elf 2 stay down.

All sizes:
All players should use vuln bomb > mbarge > bled mflurry > flanking backhand > cane > 188s to finish on the erupts.

After eruptions are dead, the storm should hit a few times before dying as well. Ults for P2 work a bit differently between duo and 4 man, and also vary based on aggro. 

(duo):
If Solak is on the DPS, the base should sun and use flanking impact before Solak reaggros. Within this sun you should aim to get 2x wm, 1x asphyx and 1x deto. Note that you should freely use all bleeds here, as the DPS will be zerking after coming down from the storm. After the second wm build to 100 adren and sigil zerk, doing the same rotation as P1 (bled assault + cane). Your zerk should be over before the start of rain. After zerk, use all TMW bleeds, then ZGS spec. Optimally, this should be happening just a few abilities before the arms spec, so you should be able to anticipate and ZGS spec to mbarge (remember to ZGS spec out of MD to prevent auto) . Regardless, use assault + cane and 188s in ZGS to bring Solak to the phase HP. Make sure your adren is high at this time, to be able to apot zerk ASAP at the start of P3. If Solak is on you, use TMW bleeds first, then build to zerk. Sun afterwards with the same thresholds mentioned before, then ZGS.

The DPS should zerk when they come down from the storm, doing the same rotation as P1 (bled assault + cane). Afterwards, do a sun rotation similar to the base, aiming to get 2x wm, 1x asphyx, and 1x flanking deep impact. ZGS when you are around 80 adren after the second wm. Due to the fact that the DPS goes up twice, you have less time for ZGS P2, which generally means it’s better to ZGS without barging, and freedom for arms. Your rotation here can vary a bit, though, so just use your own judgement and above all make sure you are giving yourself enough time to dive to + climb the arm. Whilst climbing, you will not be able to melee Solak, so switch to mage and build until he phases. If the HP is quite high at this point, you can use thresholds. Note that you should try to avoid using mage autos around when Solak phases here, as you will end up stalling any autos you use during the phase transition (this forces your next auto to be a mage auto regardless of weapon type, so you will be unable to 5taa in your P3 zerk). 

(4 man):
P2 damage is a bit more important in 4 man kills, since you are not timegated by the arm spec. If Solak is aggro’d on either of the elf 1’s, the base and elf 2 should use mage thresholds and the base should voke + TMW slaughter + dismember before building to zerk (mage thresholds can be skipped if low on adren). The base and elf 1 should barge with mobile (use either Excalibur or mage armor) on their erupt so that it is back for zerk. If Solak is aggro’d on base or elf 1, the base can instantly slaughter + combust, then build to zerk. 

The elf 1’s essentially do the exact same rotation as the DPS in a duo, except the ZGS at the end of the phase should be skipped. Sigil zerk (same rotation as P1) and sun.

The base should make sure to always apply TMW slaughter + dismember between ults. On a good kill this means that generally the base (and often the elf 2 as well) will not have enough time to get a good ZGS off, if this is the case, simply continue using thresholds in sun and cane/flurry afterwards (the base should, again, use TMW bleeds).

P3:

```Summary:
Regardless of team size/role, P3 always starts off the same - all players apot zerk, bleed either assault or destroy, then fully channel the other ability. In duo, the first pad is ignored and both players should sun after zerk. The base should lure around 580k with slaughter. Go in elf at no higher than 350k and ZGS, with one player using both TMW bleeds. In 4 man, the elf 1’s go in the first pad and ZGS, and the base and elf 2 proceed outside as if in a duo, with the base luring at 1.1m and going in the 2nd pad at no higher than 750k.```

During the phase transition to P4, if already not at 100, there is time to use 2 defensives and zerk. All players zerk with apot and barge, and bleed assault and channel destroy (or vice versa). Remember to 5taa to not lose any ticks of zerk here. The DPS(s) can use mfury and flanking backhand and the base can use freedom to fill out their respective zerk rotations. Near the beginning of the phase, the base should also position Solak such that he is south of the northernmost pad. This is to make it easier for the base to flank in sun, which can be done when Solak has a seizure. Solak should begin to seize after the first ability out of zerk.

(duo):
In duo the first pad is ignored. The base should TMW dismember, then sun. The DPS should sun on the northern wall to easily flank and also avoid Solak’s stun. The base should slaughter in sun at some point and lure Solak to the 2nd pad at around 580k HP (can be lower if uncomfortable). Both players enter the elf when the HP is at most 350k (you can also just decide with your duo partner what kind of P4 HP you are both comfortable with), and proceed to barge + ZGS. Both players will bleed assault and flank at some point depending on when the other player vokes. One player should use TMW dismember, tendril, and cane, while the other should use cane and flurry. Note that Erethdor is capable of using freedom on slaughter, so it should not be used. 

(4 man):
The elf 1’s should use wild magic after their zerks, then use defensives and enter the elf. The rotations used in the elf should be more adren conservative as both elf 1’s will need to sun immediately when they come out. Something similar to bleed destroy + assault or bleed assault + tendril + cane is fine. After elf, the elf 1’s should sun in the same spots as in a duo - one southwest, but east of the base (so as to not hit the base with roots), and one on the northern wall. The base and elf 2 do essentially the exact same rotations as in a duo, except Solak can be lured to the pad much earlier (1.1m is generally safe to start charging).

P4:

```Summary:
Remember to shard while Solak is immune to damage (but attackable). The timing for zerking P4 is 5 abilities + 2t, then zerk. Provided nobody on the team has died, sigil zerk with a bled assault, hurricane, and flurry (or shatter and destroy) from all players will easily finish off Solak.```

In duo and 4 man the rotations are exactly the same. If you are able to build to 100 before Solak is attackable, natural instinct can be used. To build back to 100 in time, use nati (with 2h auto) -> shard -> 5taa + basic -> basic (TMW dismember if base) -> defensive -> zerk. With nati active during P4, you will be able to use a dclaw spec instead of your 3rd threshold, so something like barge -> fury -> backhand -> bleed assault -> freedom -> claw spec -> cane/destroy depending on HP (shatter beforehand if base).

If Solak’s starting HP is high in this phase, you can stall cane (shatter if base) in the middle of your zerk and release the tick before flurry (destroy/cane if base). This will make it so that Solak’s HP is higher for longer, which makes manifestations spawn slower (manifestations in the mind spawn faster as Solak’s corporeal HP decreases). Remember to cast vengeance, turn on the wrath prayer, call + manually target your Ripper Demon on Solak (as killing elf often causes Ripper to lose its target), and deploy Dreadnips if bringing them. With all these safeguards, it should be relatively easy to finish off Solak without dying on starting health pools of up to 350k in duo or 570k in 4 man.
